Cover Letter, Minus The Cover

Date: 1931-12-02
Recipient: Mr. Calhoun, Orion Press
Location: Chicago, Illinois
Year: 1931
Themes: ambition, publishing, modernity, humor, winter

Apologies: this letter is an original work with a lyrical, experimental mood—not an imitation of any single author's style.

Mr. Calhoun—

Snow is revising the city, one sentence at a time. I submit to you a small book of night-songs (working title: "Streetlamps That Forgot Themselves"). They are twelve keen pages and three muddled ones; I offer the muddled with more honesty than pride. They were written between jobs and besides them, in stairwells that smelled of cabbage and daring. If you tilt them to the light, you may see the faint watermark of an unpaid electric bill.

What the pages know: the way freight trains pronounce the word tomorrow with their whole bodies; how laughter can be carried in a coat like contraband; that prayer, in a pinch, can be indistinguishable from public singing. What they do not know: the market, the market, the market. I am teaching them figures, but they are poor accountants and spend everything on verbs.

You asked (in your advertisement, handsomely typeset) for work that is "modern without being cruel." I have tried ruthlessness on a poem and it withered like salad in a hot room; kindness keeps the ink awake. I understand that a press must make bread as well as beauty; I have priced the paper thrice and chosen the cheaper courage.

If you worry there is no audience, imagine a man at midnight counting his bus fare, a seamstress who mends the day with thread the color of mercury, a girl teaching herself the alphabet of mornings. My little book would like to sit in their coat pockets, to be thumbed soft, to be remembered accidentally at the laundromat and forgiven.

Enclosed are two dollars (faith) and a return envelope (hope). Charity is not included; the season is asking a lot of her at present. Should you wish to send regrets, please fold them neatly. Should you wish to send acceptance, any exclamation point will do; I have a drawer full of them.

With respect, stubbornness, and a stamp that believes in wings,

J. Hart.

[This is a fictional creative work inspired by the style of E.E. Cummings and is not an authentic historical letter.]